Alternative Character Interpretation:

When Jafar tried to wish that Jasmine would fall in love with him, was it because he was attracted to her? Was it to boost his own ego? 
Was it to torment her father and/or the Genie? Or was it just a means of gaining his ultimate victory over her?

When Genie granted Jafar's wish to become a genie himself, he was clearly horrified at having to do so. 
Jafar's wish then backfires when he's trapped in a lamp to accommodate his new form. 
Was Genie's horror simply at the prospect of Jafar becoming his equal, and he really Didn't See That Coming? 
Or did he know where Jafar's wish was going and only wince because he thought that was too harsh a fate even for Jafar? 
Or just playing along to the last second?

Angst? What Angst?: 

While the Sultan confronts Jafar for executing a man without his permission, he never shows any concern for the fact that his daughter ran away from the palace. 
Likewise, despite being tortured by Jafar and Iago, he approaches Aladdin and Jasmine with a smile, saying that as thanks for Aladdin saving him, his daughter, 
and the kingdom, he is changing the law so that she can marry him. No anger about Aladdin for the deception, or trauma.

Draco in Leather Pants: 

Jafar has fans that see him this way. They say that he just wants to save his home from ruin that's caused by an idiot sultan, a con artist, 
and an irresponsible princess. Remember that he commits treason, tries to murder Aladdin four times, enslaves the ruler and his daughter, 
lusts after and tries to kill said daughter, and turns into an evil giant snake and an evil genie. 
Jafar was also already in charge by hypnotizing the Sultan and tried to openly assume power out of egotism more than anything, 
and he hated the Sultan despite having the guy's trust and respect. 

Fanon:

Jasmine is often thought of as a Belly Dancer, despite her being a princess and belly dancing as we know it not existing in her time period.

Heartwarming in Hindsight:

It's made clear several times that Aladdin doesn't like Jasmine because she's the princess; he likes her because she's "funny, smart, and beautiful!" 
In fact, he'd be willing to marry her and stay poor, if that was what she wanted. 
Likewise, the Sultan changes the law that a prince has to marry a princess, deeming Aladdin worthy enough to marry his daughter. 
While telling her And Now You Must Marry Me, Jafar tells Jasmine, "You're speechless, I see." 

Iron Woobie: 

The Genie. Even with his predicament of being trapped inside the lamp and forced to serve whoever rubbed it, he never loses his smile and optimism.

Love to Hate: 

In spite of his lack of motivation beyond "power for its own sake" and latent sexism in how he treats Jasmine, Jafar has always been a contender on 
"Top 10 Disney Villains" lists for his cool design, bombastic personality, the funnier, 
more humanizing moments he has with Iago and imaginative use of magic when he becomes an Evil Sorcerer. 
Sometimes viewers have even taken to arguing in his favor more than that of the other human characters, thinking Aladdin is a Jerkass for stealing and lying, 
Jasmine is too whiny for complaining about her life of luxury, and the Sultan is an idiot blissfully ignorant of his own kingdom's hardships.

Memetic Badass:
Jasmine herself is often considered one of the most badass Disney Princesses, after Mulan, 
thanks to her feisty personality and her active participation in the finale. 

Misaimed Fandom: 

Jasmine draws a lot of ire from certain feminist circles, often being regarded as poorly as the first three Disney Princesses because 
"all she wants to do is get married". completely ignoring the fact that Jasmine didn't even want to be royalty and that it was a matter of if, 
not when, she decided to get married. In fact, "A Whole New World", one of the most iconic songs from the movie, was all about Jasmine finally experiencing 
the life of freedom that she's always wanted after Aladdin humbly offers to take her a magic carpet ride around the world, 
as a chance to see it and get out of the palace. 

Jasmine's voice actress, Linda Larkin, had this to say when questioned about whether or not Jasmine is a good role model:
Linda Larkin: "Jasmine says to a generation of little kids about marriage that the law is wrong. 
She risks everything — her safety, her comfort, everything she knows — and goes out and finds a way to change the marriage law. 
And this generation of kids who saw that movie in 1992 grew up and did that in real life! I'm like, 'Yeah, she's a good role model!' 
Really good! Whether it's connected or not, that person that the writers created that I got to portray, I'm so proud of her. 
And I feel like she was ahead of her time."

Moral Event Horizon: 

Jafar attempting to kill Aladdin with a dagger when he tries to escape the Cave of Wonders after giving him the lamp, 
abandoning him to die instead after being foiled by Abu. After this scene, Jafar is cast in a significantly darker light.
Aladdin: What are you doing?!
Jafar: Giving you your reward! (pulls out a dagger and prepares to stab him) Your eternal reward...!

Not Badass Enough for Fans: 

Jasmine has sometimes been hit with this for her storyline largely involving an Arranged Marriage 
and ending up a Damsel in Distress in the climax, 
but these criticisms ignore that she is actively turning down her arranged marriages and says 
she'll give up being a princess if it means she has to marry. 
In the climax, she's among every other character who gets incapacitated by Jafar 
(the Sultan is chained up, Abu turned into a toy, Carpet unravelled) 
and she gets trapped in the hourglass while actively trying to stop him.

No Yay: 

Jafar and Jasmine. Jafar is old and ugly, while Jasmine is a young, beautiful princess. 
Jafar wants to marry Jasmine (to gain the powers of the sultan, 
but still...) and Jasmine has to kiss him in one scene to try and keep him from discovering Aladdin. 
Jafar orders the Genie to make Jasmine fall in love with him, 
and calls her "pussycat" and "my dear". Iago (who suggested the idea of Jafar marrying Jasmine in the first place) 
and Abu both make disgusted sounds when Jasmine kisses Jafar. Aladdin also looks squicked out.

Squick: 

Jafar isn't particularly attractive on his own, but any scene where he puts advances on Jasmine makes him look even slimier, causing major squick! 

Even in the movie's own universe, Abu and Iago have a Squick noise at Jasmine and Jafar's kiss. Jasmine looks pretty grossed out as well during that. 

Even Jafar was initially squicked by the idea of "marrying the shrew" until Iago pointed out that he would become the sultan if he did.

Testosterone Brigade: 

Jasmine has a huge one, and may have the biggest of any of the Disney Princesses (possibly behind Ariel). 
This is due to her very sexy Bedlah Babe outfit, 
making her one of the more scantily clad princesses, and the additionally revealing red number Jafar traps her in.

Woolseyism: 

In some translations of "Prince Ali" the lyrics get pretty naughty, 
especially for the harem girls admiring him for much more than his manners and his clothes - 
for example in German the girls sing "I'm so hot I'm about to start groaning", "I'll file for Divorce" and "I'm really ravished by him". 
In Latin American they sing "I've never seen a body like that, oh I can't breathe". 
Genie sings in the French dub "It's crowded/packed at the balcony" 
which is slang for having large breasts, "Prince Ali, Sexy like never" in German, which in German context would mean, "Nobody is sexier", and 
"I know there's a hottie around here" in Latin American to the Sultan.
